website/integrations: add mailcow (#13727)
goauthentik/authentik: website/integrations/services/mailcow/index.md

---
title: Integrate with mailcow
sidebar_label: mailcow
support_level: community
---

## What is mailcow

> > mailcow: dockerized is an open source groupware/email suite based on docker. mailcow relies on many well known and long used components, which in combination result in an all around carefree email server.

Author: I would agree, I just took the description of mailcow from their website.

> > mailcow: dockerized is an open source groupware/email suite based on docker. mailcow relies on many well known and long used components, which in combination result in an all around carefree email server.

Reviewer: We need to capitalize "Dockerized" as well. ;-)

And consider removing the word "carefree", lol. Since we are rewriting thier words anyway.

>
> -- https://mailcow.email/

## Preparation

The following placeholders are used in this guide:

- `mailcow.company` is the FQDN of the mailcow installation.
- `authentik.company` is the FQDN of the authentik installation.

:::note
This documentation lists only the settings that you need to change from their default values. Be aware that any changes other than those explicitly mentioned in this guide could cause issues accessing your application.
:::

## authentik configuration

To support the integration of mailcow with authentik, you need to create an application/provider pair in authentik.

### Create an application and provider in authentik

1. Log in to authentik as an admin, and open the authentik Admin interface.

> 2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Applications** and click **Create with Provider** to create an application and provider pair. (Alternatively you can create only an application, without a provider, by clicking **Create**.)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Navigate to **Applications** > **Applications** and click **Create with Provider** to create an application and provider pair. (Alternatively you can first create a provider separately, then create the application and connect it with the provider.)
```

- **Application**: provide a descriptive name, an optional group for the type of application, the policy engine mode, and optional UI settings.
- **Choose a Provider type**: select **OAuth2/OpenID Connect** as the provider type.
- **Configure the Provider**: provide a name (or accept the auto-provided name), the authorization flow to use for this provider, and the following required configurations.
    - Note the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** values because they will be required later.

>     - Set a `Strict` redirect URI to `https://mailcow.company`.

Author: I had intended to do it the way you suggested, but I noticed that several other descriptions of the application used a different approach with the quotation marks, so I adjusted it. If the new design rule is `kbd` and `em`, then that's fine.

    - Select any available signing key.
- **Configure Bindings** _(optional)_: you can create a [binding](/docs/add-secure-apps/flows-stages/bindings/) (policy, group, or user) to manage the listing and access to applications on a user's **My applications** page.

3. Click **Submit** to save the new application and provider.

## mailcow configuration

Login to mailcow with admin permissions. Go to _System_ → _Configuration_.
Press _Access_ → _Identity_ _Provider_ and enter the following:

- Identity Provider: `Generic-OIDC`
- Authorization endpoint: `https://mailcow.company/application/o/authorize/`
- Token endpoint: `https://mailcow.company/application/o/token/`
- User info endpoint: `https://mailcow.company/application/o/userinfo/`
- Client ID: The 'Client ID' from the authentik provider
- Client Secret: The 'Client secret' from the authentik provider
- Redirect Url: `https://mailcow.company`

> - Client Scopes: `openid profile email`

Author: Like above, I had intended to do it the way you suggested, but I noticed that several other descriptions of the application used a different approach with the quotation marks, so I adjusted it. My suggestion would then be to additionally put _mailcow.company_ in `em` tag as above.

> Save changes and test the connection.

Author: I will check and add something.

    - Note the **Client ID** and **Client Secret** values because they will be required later.
    - Set a `Strict` redirect URI to <kbd>https://<em>mailcow.company</em></kbd>.
    - Select any available signing key.
- **Configure Bindings** _(optional)_: you can create a [binding](/docs/add-secure-apps/flows-stages/bindings/) (policy, group, or user) to manage the listing and access to applications on a user's **My applications** page.

3. Click **Submit** to save the new application and provider.

## mailcow configuration

To configure mailcow with authentik, log in as an administrator and navigate to **System** > **Configuration**. 
Then, go to **Access** > **Identity Provider** and enter the following information in the form:

- **Identity Provider**: <kbd>Generic-OIDC</kbd>
- **Authorization endpoint**: <kbd>https://<em>mailcow.company</em>/application/o/authorize/</kbd>
- **Token endpoint**: <kbd>https://<em>mailcow.company</em>/application/o/token/</kbd>
- **User info endpoint**: <kbd>https://<em>mailcow.company</em>/application/o/userinfo/</kbd>
- **Client ID**: The 'Client ID' from the authentik provider

> - **Client Secret**: The 'Client secret' from the authentik provider

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Client Secret**: The `Client secret` from the authentik provider
```

Reviewer: I just looked at the Deploy Preview and these two were not resolving as code font.. sorry I missed that first time.

Author: No worries, the mistake was actually made by me 😁 Thanks for reviewing.

- **Redirect Url**: <kbd>https://<em>mailcow.company</em></kbd>
- **Client Scopes**: <kbd>openid profile email</kbd>

## Configuration verification

> To confirm that authentik is properly configured with _mailcow_, log out and log back in via authentik.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To confirm that authentik is properly configured with mailcow, log out and log back in via authentik.
```
